=head1 NAME

Warabe::App::Role::MessagePack - Warabe Web Application API - MessagePack module

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  package My::Warabe::App;
  use base qw(Warabe::App::Role::MessagePack Warabe::App);

  $app = My::Warabe::App->new_from_http ($http);
  print Dumper $app->mp_param ('mpdata');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Warabe::App::Role::MessagePack> module defines additional
methods for handling MessagePack data in L<Warabe::App> API.  This
module is intended to be used a superclass of some subclass of
L<Warabe::App>.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item $data = $app->mp_param ($name)

Decode the request parameter
(i.e. C<application/x-www-form-urlencoded> or C<multipart/form-data>
encoded form data set in query parameters and request-body) with the
specified name as MessagePack and return as a Perl scalar value.

If the parameter values is not a MessagePack serialized data, the
C<undef> value is returned.

Please note that, since MessagePack does not have character string
type (which is different from byte (or octet) string type), any string
extracted from the MessagePack data will not have utf8 flag set.

Also note that the percent-encoded data must be a MessagePack encoded
byte stream.  This is a willful violation to the HTML Living Standard,
which defines the C<application/x-www-form-urlencoded> data model in
terms of characters rather than bytes.

=item $data = $app->mpb64_param ($name)

Decode the request parameter
(i.e. C<application/x-www-form-urlencoded> or C<multipart/form-data>
encoded form data set in query parameters and request-body) with the
specified name as MessagePack data encoded in "base64url" and return
as a Perl scalar value.

If the parameter values is not a MessagePack serialized data encoded
in the base64url format, the C<undef> value is returned.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Data::MessagePack>.

MessagePack <http://msgpack.org/>.

base64url <http://suika.fam.cx/~wakaba/wiki/sw/n/Base64#anchor-833>.

L<Warabe::App>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <w@wuika.fam.cx>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2012 Wakaba <w@suika.fam.cx>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
