=head1 NAME

Wanage and Warabe - APIs for server-side Web applications

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Wanage> and B<Warabe> are lightweight protocol-wrapper API layers
for building server-side Web applications.

  +------+   +------+   +------+      +------+      +------+
  |Your  |<->|Warabe|<->|Wanage|<---->|HTTP  |<---->|HTTP  |
  |  App.|   +------+   |      | CGI  |server| HTTP |client|
  |      |<------------>|      | PSGI |      |      |      |
  +------+              +------+      +------+      +------+
  
  App.       Common     Generic       TCP/HTTP
  specific   Web app.   HTTP          protocol
  logic      operations interpret.    handling

As shown in the figure, Warabe is an optional component build on top
of Wanage.

They are I<not> Web application frameworks (WAFs).  They only provide
abstraction for interpretation of HTTP requests and construction of
HTTP responses in the level enough to create Web applications by just
understanding how HTTP works, without learning bulk of WAF-specific
APIs.  They does not define how you organize your Web application.
They can be used in conjection with a random Perl WAF, as long as it
does not prevent you from accessing raw HTTP requests and/or
responses, if desired.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Wanage::HTTP>.

L<Warabe::App>.

=head1 DISTRIBUTION

Latest version of these modules are available in the Git repository:
<https://github.com/manakai/wanage>.

There are no longer snapshot release version tarballs for Wanage and
Warabe.  You can just add the repository as a Git submodule of your
Git repository, if your application is using Git.

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

These modules require Perl 5.8 or later.  In addition, a few non-core
modules are required: L<Exporter::Lite>; L<Path::Class>; L<List::Ish>
(in the C<modules/perl-ooutils> submodule); L<Web::Encoding> and other
modules from the <https://github.com/manakai/perl-web-url>
repository); L<Web::URL> and other modules from the
<https://github.com/manakai/perl-web-encodings> repository).

It also requires a promise implementation (e.g. L<Promise> from the
<https://github.com/manakai/perl-promise> repository) if you would
like to use promise-related features.

Optional modules such as C<Warabe::App::Role::*> might require
additional modules; see relevant documentations and source codes of
those modules.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 HISTORY

This repository was originally located at
<https://github.com/wakaba/wanage>, which has been transferred to the
manaki project on November 16, 2021.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2012-2021 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
