=head1 NAME

Wanage::HTTP::ClientIPAddr - An object representing the client IP address

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $ip = $http->client_ip_addr;
  print $ip->as_text;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Wanage::HTTP::ClientIPAddr> object represents the IP address of
the HTTP client for a request.

The IP address is the value of the C<REMOTE_ADDR> CGI meta-variable in
the simplest case.  However, when there are one or more intermediate
proxies, the situation is much more difficult.  This module extracts
client IP address from HTTP C<X-Forwarded-For> header, if available.

=head1 METHODS

The C<Wanage::HTTP::ClientIPAddr> object for a request can be
retrieved from the C<client_ip_addr> method of the HTTP object.  See
L<Wanage::HTTP> for more information.  The object has the following
method:

=over 4

=item $addr = $ip->as_text

Return the canonical textual representation of the client IP address.
It can be either an IPv4 address or an IPv6 address.  If no IP address
is available, the C<undef> value is returned.

=back

=head1 SUBCLASSING

You can define a subclass of the C<Wanage::HTTP::ClientIPAddr> class
such that the rule to extract the client IP address from the list of
candidate addresses can be configured for your application's
installation.  Example:

  package My::Wanage::HTTP::ClientIPAddr;
  use base qw(Wanage::HTTP::ClientIPAddr);
  
  sub select_addr {
    my ($self) = @_;
    return $self->{addrs}->grep (sub { not_private_addr $_ })->[-1];
  }
  
  $Wanage::HTTP::ClientIPAddrClass = __PACKAGE__;

The C<select_addr> method is invoked when it is necessary to determine
the client IP address from the list of candidates.  The method can use
the C<< $self->{addr} >> list (a L<List::Ish> object) as the list of
candidate IP addresses in their canonical textual representations.
The list contains the C<REMOTE_ADDR> address followed by the
C<X-Forwarded-For:> addresses.  The list must not be modified by the
method.  The method is expected to return one of them, if there is an
appropriate address, or return the C<undef> value.

By default, the C<select_addr> method return the last address in the
list.

The subclassing might be useful if you are using multiple reverse
proxies (or intermediate caches) such that the last IP address in the
C<X-Forwarded-For:> header is not of the client, or if you are using a
quirky intermediate which inserts sender IP address to wrong place in
the C<X-Forwarded-For:> headers.

The C<X-Forwarded-For:> headers are ignored unless the
C<$Wanage::HTTP::UseXForwardedFor> variable is set to true.  This
varibale is set to false by default.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Wanage::HTTP>.

RFC 3875 - The Common Gateway Interface (CGI) Version 1.1
<http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3875#section-4.1.8>.

SuikaWiki:X-Forwarded-For:
<http://suika.fam.cx/~wakaba/wiki/sw/n/X-Forwarded-For%3A>.

L<Web::IPAddr::Canonicalize>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2012 Wakaba <w@suika.fam.cx>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
