=head1 NAME

Wanage::HTTP::MIMEType - MIME type object

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  $mime = $http->request_mime_type;
  print $mime->value;
  print $mime->params->{charset};
  print $mime->is_xml_mime_type;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Wanage::HTTP::MIMEType> object represents an MIME type, possibly
with parameters.

This module refers Internet Media Type as "MIME type".  This is a
willful violation to MIME specifications to match the terminology with
Web standard specifications such as HTML and XHR.

=head1 METHODS

The C<Wanage::HTTP::MIMEType> object for the C<Content-Type:> header
in the request message can be accessed from the C<request_mime_type>
method of the HTTP object.  Likewise, the C<Wanage::HTTP::MIMEType>
object for the C<Content-Type:> header in the response mesage can be
accessed from the C<response_mime_type> method of the HTTP object.

=over 4

=item $value = $mime->value

Return the type and subtype of the MIME type, in lowercase.  If the
object does not repsents a valid MIME type, the C<undef> value is
returned instead.

=item $hashref = $mime->params

Return the hash reference containing the parameter name-value pairs of
the MIME type.  Parameter names are normalized to lowercase form.

Applications should not modify the hash.

=item $mime->set_value ($new_value)

Set the type and subtype.  The argument must be a valid MIME type with
no parameters.

=item $mime->set_param ($name => $value)

Set a parameter.  The argument must be a valid parameter name-value
pair for the MIME type.  If there is already a parameter with the same
name is specified for the MIME type, the older value is discarded.

=item BOOL = $mime->is_xml_mime_type

Return whether the MIME type is an XML MIME Type or not.

=item BOOL = $mime->is_html_mime_type

Return whether the MIME type is an HTML MIME Type or not.

=item $bytes = $mime->as_bytes

Serialize the MIME type as a byte string.  If the object does not
represents a valid MIME type, the C<undef> value is returned.  If the
object contains syntactically illegal parameter names or values, they
are ignored.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Wanage::HTTP>.

RFC 2045 - MIME Part One: Format of Internet Message Bodies
<http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2045>.

RFC 4288 - Media Type Specifications and Registration Procedures
<http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4288>.

RFC 3023 - XML Media Types <http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3023>.

RFC 2616 - HTTP/1.1 <http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-3.7>.

MIME Sniffing <http://mimesniff.spec.whatwg.org/>.

HTML Standard
<http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/#mime-type>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <w@suika.fam.cx>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2012 Wakaba <w@suika.fam.cx>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
