=head1 NAME

Wanage::HTTP::UA - User agent sniffer

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  $ua = $http->ua;
  print $ua->is_ie;
  print $ua->is_galapagos;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Wanage::HTTP::UA> object provides several C<is_*> methods to
detect type of the client user agent.

As a general rule, user-agent sniffing B<SHOULD NOT> be used and
client-side device adaptation techniques such as Media Queries should
be used instead.  However, it is sometimes necessary to detect the
client user agent, for the support of legacy or broken user agents.
The object only provides methods to test whether the user agent is
broken or of limited capabilities.  Therefore, the object does not
provide C<is_gecko> or C<is_chrome>.

=head1 METHODS

The user-agent object for a request can be retrieved from the HTTP
object by the C<ua> method.  See L<Wanage::HTTP> for more information.

Following methods are available on a user-agent object:

=over 4

=item is_ie

Internet Explorer.

=item is_iphone

iPhone and iPod Touch.

=item is_ipad

iPad.

=item is_android

Android.  Please note that not only default browser, but third-party
browsers are also identified as Android.  In addition, any
Android-based devices, not limited to smartphones, are included.

=item is_galapagos

So-called "Galapagos" browsers, i.e. browsers in classic mobile phones
in Japanese market ("feature phones").  It does not include full
browsers and smartphone browsers.

=item is_docomo

i-mode browsers by NTT docomo.  Please note that it does not include
full browsers and smartphone browsers.

=item is_docomo1

i-mode browser 1.0 by NTT docomo.  Please note that it does not
include full browsers.

=item is_au

KDDI au's Galapagos browsers.  Please note that it does not include
full browsers.

=item is_softbank

SoftBank's Galapagos browsers.  Please note that it does not include
full browsers and smartphone browsers.

=item is_ds

Nintendo DSi and Nintendo 3DS.

=item is_dsi

Nintendo DSi.

=item is_3ds

Nintendo 3DS.

=item is_wii

Nintendo Wii.

=item is_ps3

PlayStation 3.

=item is_psp

PlayStation Portalble (PSP).

=item is_psvita

PlayStation Vita.

=item is_hatena_star

Accesses from Hatena Star <http://s.hatena.com/> servers.

=item is_bot

Robots.

=back

=head1 SUBCLASSING

You can create a subclass of the C<Wanage::HTTP::UA> to add methods
for testing against application-specific categorizations or
special-purpose user-agents.

Such methods can invoke existing methods of the C<$self> object, or
use the C<< $self->{ua} >> value, which contains the C<User-Agent:>
header value of the request.  They can use keys whose name is same as
their method names for instance-caching sniffing results.

You can specify your own subclass by setting the package name to the
C<$Wanage::HTTP::UAClass> variable.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Wanage::HTTP>.

Let's create i-mode contents: User agents
<http://www.nttdocomo.co.jp/service/developer/make/content/spec/useragent/>.

KDDI au: Other technical information: HTTP Request header
<http://www.au.kddi.com/ezfactory/tec/spec/4_4.html>.

User agents - WEB & NETWORK - Mobile Creation | SoftBank Mobile
<http://creation.mb.softbank.jp/mc/tech/tech_web/web_useragent.html>.

What is the user-agent of the Internet Channel? - How can I create Web
pages for Internet Channel? : Q&A - Wii
<http://www.nintendo.co.jp/wii/q_and_a/093.html#category01>.

Nintendo DSi browser - Specification
<http://www.nintendo.co.jp/ds/dsiware/hngj/spec.html>.

Specification of Internet Browser
<http://www.nintendo.co.jp/3ds/hardware/features/browser.html>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <w@suika.fam.cx>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2012 Wakaba <w@suika.fam.cx>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
